Nicknames that you recall? That I was called? No,
anybody. Anybody? That you remember. Everybody
had a nickname. Yeah. Normally it was, it could be
ethnic origin, Greek. We had four or five Greek
Americans. We would just call them Greek. The rest
of them were just kind of a shortened of their name.
Very few people were called by their regular name.
What about the Hispanics? What were they called? I
don't recall.
Obviously there were the Hispanics, there was no
ethnic sensitivities back in those days, but it
was always with respect. I don't remember
anything really derogatory on an ethnic basis.
You know, if you call somebody a Greek or whatever,
it's because he was Greek. What about faculty
nicknames? Oh, well, all the faculty members had
names. Unless they were really good professors
who had no idiosyncrasies, but as you know, as a
former professor, and I've been an adjunct
professor, most professors have some somewhat
idiosyncratic. But share some of those with me
that you remember. Well, Shaky Joe R. was one civil
engineering professor, and that was kind of a
low-class thing to call him because he had some
kind of shake in his right hand there. Shaky Joe. My
sanitary engineering professor, we called him
Fecal Joe, Joe Sorrells. Dr.
Harrington was just Doc. I don't know where he got
that name, Doc Harrington. Is that M.T. or no? No,
no. No, I had no relationship. Same last name, but
no relationship. A real character. We would
normally call them by what they taught. What about
English or math or chemistry?
Well, of course, we all took about the same
curriculum our freshman and sophomore year. So
those were kind of the mass. We didn't quite get as
close to professors of freshman and sophomore
year as we did. But normally in our junior and
senior years in civil engineering, we'd call them
by what they taught. Concrete Bill or Steel John or
Fecal Joe. And if they had certain
idiosyncrasies, we'd call them by that. One of my
favorite of that period was J.G.H. Thompson in
Emmy. He was alphabet. Alphabet Thompson? I think
I remember that, yeah. All right, let's see. We're
getting near the end now. What are the key events or
traditions or practices that make up the basis for
Aggie feelings, love? Dedication. Kind of the
rallying points. What's in the recipe there?
Well, certainly
kind of the umbrella is the Association of Former
Students, which is, as anybody knowledgeable
knows, you know being in the Big Eight and the Big 12
at Missouri. And I've looked at alumni
organizations throughout the country because
I've had the opportunity to spend a lot of time in my
profession at various universities. And I've
always made it kind of a habit to go back and look at
their alumni organizations to see how it operates
compared to the Association of Former Students.
And with that being braggadocio, braggadocio,
there's no organization that even comes close.
All right, but why do Aggie, alums feel that way
about their school? Well, certainly it goes back
to their college experience back in those days. I
thought it would probably end when the Corps
became not the dominating factor, but that hasn't
really proved to be true. I've had three daughters
who've gone there, and they rallied to the same
rallying points that I do, all three of whom were in
sororities, and didn't really spend a lot of time
dating guys in the Corps. So, of course, they all
went there as young children, so they got imbued in
the scene. But I think your college days certainly
is a great starting point. College at any
university should be a gratifying experience.
That's when you really go from somebody who's not
productive, even the end product of a university,
to somebody who is productive, who contributes to
the GNV, contributes to the social aspects of
society. But I think A&M was special in that it had
such a tradition itself, being a land grant
school, being a military school, being an
all-male school. in the tradition of Virginia
military, Virginia Tech, Clemson, as you
mentioned earlier, gave you kind of a special
status. And I think that was the rallying point. So
people now in their 50s and 60s who had that special
time in the Corps of Cadets and shared the
male-dominated scene have that special feeling.
But it's carried on after the Corps became less of a
factor. Still a major factor, but
percentage-wise, the student body is much
smaller, of course. Are there any events while an
Aggie is a student that are essential ingredients
in this loyalty feeling? Well, certainly the
muster and certainly the
football weekends, the muster, I guess, are the
two biggest events. Graduation, the
commissioning. Those things come to mind as being
kind of the highlights. Are there any physical
things? Any tangible things?
Which promotes the loyalty to the school? You mean
outside the campus? Like what's on your face? Oh,
the Aggie ring. Well, sure. Aggie ring's unique.
Certainly...
When I first put on my Aggie ring, it was obvious. I
mean, you could spot them wherever you went, so
when you'd notice an Aggie ring, it was
immediately a point of conversation, which I have
appreciated and enjoyed in all parts of the world.
On airplanes and foreign countries, when you see
an Aggie ring, it's pretty obvious. Do you
remember what it cost you? Yeah, I do. It seemed
like it was about $85. And did that $85 come easy?
No. Well, as I recall, the association picked up
half of it. I may have paid half of that, $45 or
something. Now, did you all have any ritual or
routine of what you would do when you got the ring?
Well, there was the ring dance, of course, which
you have your, in this case, my future wife. Well,
she puts the ring on under the big ring envelope
there. One ritual, which I'm not even sure, it was
upside down when you were a senior, and then when
you graduate, you turn it right side up. I'm not
sure if that's still a tradition or not. I don't
know either. Today, I understand that with some of
them, you're supposed to put it in a pitcher of beer
and chug a lot, but y'all didn't do that. That's
something. God forbid if you have to swallow it.
Well, apparently that has happened a couple of
times. No, there's a lot of traditions that we
didn't have there, and a lot of traditions we had
then that are not enjoyed today. Let's see. Are you
at liberty to say anything about any secret
fraternities? Well, there was none there when I
was there. There was the TTs before I got there,
which was kind of flushed out. I just read about it
because I had a brother in school at that time when
that was a big deal. We never had any secret
fraternities at all when I was there. That I knew
about, if it were secret, they were very good
secret because neither I nor my friends, many of
them were student leaders and core leaders, I
didn't even hear about it. I didn't hear about any
in the 60s and 70s if they were there. Frankly, we
were too busy with core activities and our
curriculum and our social life, which was pretty
normal, to fool anything like that. All right.
Only two or three more questions. What did it, as
you look back, what did it mean to you that you
attended Texas A&M? Well, it... It was the
springboard really into my profession, to my
maturity, I think into good citizenship. I guess
the thing that I remember that I think was probably
the biggest jumpstart by going to A&M, when I
attributed all of this to the corporate edge, is
that I simply didn't have time to do anything.
Every minute was occupied. And today, see I got out
in 59, so it's almost 40 years later. I feel like I
have the ability to use my time effectively in my
profession in this room. When I get in the morning,
everything is programmed so that every minute,
when I play, I play, but when I work, I work, and it's
organized. And I attribute that really to the fact
that I just had no time, particularly as a freshman
and sophomore at A&M, to do anything except my core
activities and my education. It's just a
wonderful, through the accident of going to A&M at
that period of time, it's a wonderful, I think,
training that has served me well in my profession
throughout my career. Last question. Yeah. What
feelings do you hold in your heart now for Texas
A&M? Well, the same as, I guess, my colleagues. I
think the taxpayers got their money's worth. When
you look at what A&M graduates have done in
society, and I'm not sure what the yardstick is.
It's probably give back to society producing a lot
of the wealth of our state, giving it back
unselfishly. It's a special feeling, and it's
common through all my friends. I mean, it's an easy
thing. So it was, again, that comes at a very
special time in your life when you come in as a 16- or
17-year-old. Forget about what your IQ is or what
your propensity to learning is. You're immature.
We thought we were kind of hot shots because we had a
great high school. I had a great high school
career. And I thought I was ready for anything. But
you're not. But when you come out of A&M, you're 21
or 22 years old. You've got a basic education. You
understand the basic sciences. You understand
what the world's like a little bit more. You have
strong friendships which stay with you for the
rest of your life. It's a state institution. The
taxpayers pay, now it's 30% or 40% of the state
taxpayers. But the federal and the state pick up a
good portion. What they don't pay, your parents
do. But the state wants a return on that
investment. And I'd venture to say that the return
on investment of A&M has probably been the best of
any university in the country, state university,
maybe private or public. Again, you can't put a
yardstick to that, but I'm out in society. We've
got this country right now, and I've always felt
that way, that the best deal a taxpayer's ever got
was sending a kid to A&M.